# Upgrading from pre v0.1.0 to v0.1.0-rc.0

This guide applies to instances of Beacon that started before the v0.1.0-rc.0 release,
and need to migrate data and make changes to update to the latest version.

For this guide, we'll assume your Beacon dependency is set to [1d8d2fd636a40c107d47d0a87869930fdd0f82d0](https://github.com/BeaconCMS/beacon/tree/1d8d2fd636a40c107d47d0a87869930fdd0f82d0)
from Oct 11, 2023, but it should apply to any revision.

## Backup

Before proceeding make sure you have a backup of your database and the current codebase.

## Migrate the database schema and data

Before v0.1.0-rc.0 we used to keep the list of migrations in the `priv/repo/migrations` directly,
but eventually we merged all those files into a single migration for the v0.1.0-rc.0 release.
So before we can bump Beacon to the latest version, we need to execute the remaining migrations up to v0.1.0-rc.0

You can see the  migrations in https://github.com/BeaconCMS/beacon/tree/c87777d8559378502188a19a696ac465e1618424/priv/repo/migrations

Open the file `mix.exs` and update the Beacon dependency to the specific revision along with the other required dependencies:

```elixir
[
  {:beacon, github: "BeaconCMS/beacon", ref: "c87777d8559378502188a19a696ac465e1618424", override: true},
  {:beacon_live_admin, github: "BeaconCMS/beacon", ref: "9e31e0e307cf5ad44be50c689a472905c976bff3"},
  {:phoenix_html, "~> 4.0"},
  {:phoenix_live_view, "~> 0.20"},
]
```

Now execute `mix deps.update --all` to resolve all conflicts.

Before executing the migrations, we need to fix the breaking changes.

## Phoenix HTML

Phoenix HTML 4.0 has introduced breaking changes, so make sure to follow [these instructions ](https://github.com/phoenixframework/phoenix_html/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#v400-2023-12-19)
to fix your application.

## beacon_api

The macro `beacon_api` has been removed. Open the file `router.ex` and remove any call to that macro.

## Site config for c87777d8559378502188a19a696ac465e1618424

This version requires the fields `:endpoint` and `:router` besides the `:site` field,
so edit your site(s) configuration, usually in the file `application.ex` to add those fields if not present.

```elixir
{Beacon,
 sites: [
   [
     site: :my_site,
     endpoint: BeaconDemoWeb.Endpoint,
     router: BeaconDemoWeb.Router
   ]
 ]},
```

## Check for errors

Execute `mix compile --all-warnings` and check for errors and warnings, other than the missing `Beacon.DataSource.Behaviour` module.

It should compile without errors and with no extra warnings, otherwise, fix them before proceeding.

## Execute the migrations

Execute `mix ecto.migrate` to run the remaining migrations.

## Bump Beacon to latest version

Replace both `:beacon` and `:beacon_live_admin` to use the latest version, which at this moment is in the `0.1.x` series,
and add `:igniter` which is now used to execute generators for Beacon.

```elixir
[
  {:beacon, "~> 0.1.0"},
  {:beacon_live_admin, "~> 0.1.0"},
  {:igniter, "~> 0.4"},
]
```

Now execute `mix deps.update --all` to resolve all conflicts.

## Site config for v0.1

To make it easier to manage the configuration, we're now using the `config/runtime.exs` file to define the site configuration
and fetching it in the `application.ex` where the sites are defined.

Open the file `application.ex`, find where Beacon sites are defined and replace with:

```elixir
{Beacon, [sites: [Application.fetch_env!(:beacon, :my_site)]]}
```

Replace `:my_site` with your site name or add more sites if needed.

Now open the file `config/runtime.exs` and add copy the configuration you had in `application.ex` to this file, it should look like:

```elixir
config :beacon, :my_site,
  site: :my_site,
  repo: MyApp.Repo,
  endpoint: MyAppWeb.Endpoint,
  router: MyAppWeb.Router
```

You can add other sites as `config :beacon, :other_site, ...` if needed.

**Note** that there are 2 required changes in the configuration for v0.1.0

1. A new required field `:router` has been introduced, add it to your site configuration.

2. `:data_source` has been removed, so remove it from your site configuration (we'll cover this change later).

## Remove Beacon.Repo

The module `Beacon.Repo` has been removed, so search for that module in your project and remove any mention of it,
which usually is in the config files.

## Update Esbuild and Tailwind

Open the file `config/config.exs`, find the configs `:esbuild` and `:tailwind`, and change the `:version` to the latest release.

```elixir
config :esbuild,
  version: "0.24.0",
  # ...

config :tailwind,
  version: "3.4.13",
  # ...

````

Execute the following to update the binaries:

```shell
mix esbuild.install
mix tailwind.install --no-assets
```

## Migrate to latest schema

Execute `mix ecto.gen.migration create_beacon_tables` and edit the generated file to the following:

```elixir
use Ecto.Migration
def up, do: Beacon.Migration.up()
def down, do: Beacon.Migration.down()
```

## Test the app

You should be able to execute the server now.

Make sure everything is up to date:

```shell
mix setup
```

Run the server:

```shell
mix phx.server
```

TODO: next steps require either executing in PROD or restoring the database.

## Beacon.DataSource.Behaviour

That module has been removed if favor of LiveData, which is also a way to define data for pages but at runtime
instead of compile time. There's no automatic migration for this data, so you'll need to access the Live Data page
in the admin interface and recreate the data there _or_ automate it yourself by calling the [Content API functions](https://hexdocs.pm/beacon/Beacon.Content.html#functions-live-data).

Access the Live Data page in the admin interface, usually at http://localhost:4000/admin/my_site/live_data (replace `my_site` with your site name)
and first create the path you want to apply the assign and then create the assign itself.

For example if you used to have this live data in your data source module:

```elixir
def live_data(:my_site, ["blog", "categories", category], params) do
  %{blog_posts:  MyApp.Blog.list_blog_posts(category, params)}
end
```

You should create a new Live Data in admin for the path `/blog/categories/:category` and then create an Assign `blog_posts` with format `elixir` with the content:

```elixir
MyApp.Blog.list_blog_posts(category, params)
```

You

## Publish pages

It may be necessary to republish the pages due to changes in the schema, so if a page is not loading execute the following in the console:

```elixir
site = :my_site # replace with your site name
pages = Beacon.Content.list_published_pages(site, per_page: :infinity)
Beacon.Content.publish_pages(pages)
```
