# Upgrading to v0.4.0

## Update Beacon tables

Beacon v0.4 requires some new database tables for the latest features.  To create these tables,
simply run the generator for a new Ecto Migration module:

```sh
mix ecto.gen.migration update_beacon_v003
```

Then, within the generated module, call Beacon's migration helpers:

```elixir
use Ecto.Migration
def up, do: Beacon.Migration.up()
def down, do: Beacon.Migration.down()
```

## Move `Beacon` before the endpoint in application.ex

Open the file `application.ex`, find the Beacon tuple in the list of `children`,
and move it to before the endpoint(s) declarations:

```elixir
@impl true
def start(_type, _args) do
  children = [
    # ...
    {Beacon, [sites: [Application.fetch_env!(:beacon, :my_site)]]}, # <- moved to before `MyAppWeb.Endpoint`
    MyAppWeb.Endpoint
  ]
```

In v0.3.0 the order was inverted which caused a regression bug that didn't allow application to recover from crashes.

## Generate your site Endpoint and the global Proxy Endpoint

Beacon now requires an Endpoint per site and a Proxy endpoint to properly route requests to sites,
even if your application has only one site and host.

Run the [beacon.gen.site](https://hexdocs.pm/beacon/Mix.Tasks.Beacon.Gen.Site.html) task to create those files
and update your project configuration:

```sh
mix beacon.gen.site --site my_site
```

Replace `my_site` with the actual name of your site, and execute that command for each site you have configured.

Note that if you're using a custom host (domain) then execute this command instead:

```sh
mix beacon.gen.site --site my_site --host mysite.com
```

Replacing the values with the ones you actually use.

It's important to commit any changes _before_ executing that command and reviewing the proposed changes,
especially your site config in `runtime.exs` which may not match if you have a custom config.

## Copy the `esbuild` binary in the release

The binary `esbuild` is now required at runtime to bundle JS hooks,
so it should be available in the release package.

This config only applies if you have deployed Beacon in a release,
otherwise you can skip this topic.

Follow these instructions to update your project:

1. Update `copy_beacon_files/1` function in `mix.exs`

That function is responsible for checking and copying the binary files 
into the right place. See the [Deploy to Fly.io](https://hexdocs.pm/beacon/deploy-to-flyio.html)
guides to copy the actual code and paste into your project `mix.exs` file.

2. Update `Dockerfile`

In order to make sure both `tailwind` and `esbuild` are available you should include
these lines before `RUN mix release`:

```dockerfile
RUN mix tailwind.install --no-assets --if-missing
RUN mix esbuild.install --if-missing
```

More info in the [Deploy to Fly.io](https://hexdocs.pm/beacon/deploy-to-flyio.html) guide.
